CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Introduction

We welcome any and all contributions to Kedro, at whatever level you can manage. Here are a few suggestions, but you are welcome to suggest anything else that you think improves the community for us all!

## Join the community

You can find the Kedro community on our [Slack organisation](https://slack.kedro.org/), which is where we share news and announcements, and answer technical questions. You're welcome to post links to any articles or videos about Kedro that you create or find, such as how-tos, showcases, demos, blog posts or tutorials.

We also curate a [GitHub repo that lists content created by the Kedro community](https://github.com/kedro-org/awesome-kedro). If you've made something with Kedro, simply add it to the list with a PR!

## Contribute to the project

There are quite a few ways to contribute to Kedro, sich as answering questions about Kedro to help others, fixing a typo on the documentation, reporting a bug, reviewing pull requests or adding a feature.

Take a look at some of our [contribution suggestions on the Kedro GitHub Wiki](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro/wiki/Contribute-to-Kedro)!

## Join the Technical Steering Committee
Kedro is an incubating project in [LF AI & Data](https://lfaidata.foundation/), a sub-organisation within the Linux Foundation that focuses on open innovation within the data and AI space.

The project is governed by a group of maintainers, known as the Technical Steering Committee (TSC); read more about the structure of our TSC in our [Technical Charter](./kedro_technical_charter.pdf).

We regularly invite community members to join the TSC and help define the future of the Kedro project. Read the [guidance on becoming a Kedro maintainer](https://docs.kedro.org/en/stable/contribution/technical_steering_committee.html) to understand the process of joining the TSC.

## Code of conduct

The Kedro team pledges to foster and maintain a friendly community. We enforce a [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) to ensure every Kedroid is welcomed and treated with respect.

Commit message:

Add plugin contribution details to CONTRIBUTING.md
Signed-off-by: lrcouto <laurarccouto@gmail.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Introduction

We welcome any and all contributions to Kedro, at whatever level you can manage. Here are a few suggestions, but you are welcome to suggest anything else that you think improves the community for us all!

## Join the community

You can find the Kedro community on our [Slack organisation](https://slack.kedro.org/), which is where we share news and announcements, and answer technical questions. You're welcome to post links to any articles or videos about Kedro that you create or find, such as how-tos, showcases, demos, blog posts or tutorials.

We also curate a [GitHub repo that lists content created by the Kedro community](https://github.com/kedro-org/awesome-kedro). If you've made something with Kedro, simply add it to the list with a PR!

## Contribute to the project

There are quite a few ways to contribute to Kedro, sich as answering questions about Kedro to help others, fixing a typo on the documentation, reporting a bug, reviewing pull requests or adding a feature.

Take a look at some of our [contribution suggestions on the Kedro GitHub Wiki](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro/wiki/Contribute-to-Kedro)!

## Which plugin contributions are likely to be accepted?

Dataset contributions to the [Kedro-Datasets](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro-plugins/tree/main/kedro-datasets) plugin are the most frequently accepted, since they do not require any changes to the framework itself. 

However, we do not discourage contributions to any of the other [Kedro-Plugins](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro-plugins) or the framework or `Kedro-Viz`. As a guide, contributions based on existing issues from the Kedro team, or issues that the team has deemed useful, are most likely to be accepted. Any contributions that affect fundamental changes to the Kedro Framework would require discussion first. In this case, we recommend opening an issue instead of a pull request.

Make sure to check out the contributing guides for [Kedro-Docker](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro-plugins/blob/main/kedro-docker/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Kedro-Airflow](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro-plugins/blob/main/kedro-airflow/CONTRIBUTING.md) if you intend to contribute to those specific plugins.

## Join the Technical Steering Committee
Kedro is an incubating project in [LF AI & Data](https://lfaidata.foundation/), a sub-organisation within the Linux Foundation that focuses on open innovation within the data and AI space.

The project is governed by a group of maintainers, known as the Technical Steering Committee (TSC); read more about the structure of our TSC in our [Technical Charter](./kedro_technical_charter.pdf).

We regularly invite community members to join the TSC and help define the future of the Kedro project. Read the [guidance on becoming a Kedro maintainer](https://docs.kedro.org/en/stable/contribution/technical_steering_committee.html) to understand the process of joining the TSC.

## Code of conduct

The Kedro team pledges to foster and maintain a friendly community. We enforce a [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) to ensure every Kedroid is welcomed and treated with respect.
